# Solar-Tracker
2.1 	General Body


Solar energy is clean and available in abundance. Solar technologies use the sun for provision of heat, light and electricity. These are for industrial and domestic applications. With the alarming rate of depletion of depletion of major conventional energy sources like petroleum, coal and natural gas, coupled with environmental caused by the process of harnessing these energy sources, it has become an urgent necessity to invest in renewable energy sources that can power the future sufficiently. The energy potential of the sun is immense. Despite the unlimited resource however, harvesting it presents a challenge because of the limited efficiency of the array cells. 
The best efficiency of the majority of commercially available solar cells ranges between 10 and 20 percent. This shows that there is still room for improvement. This project seeks to identify a way of improving efficiency of solar panels. Solar tracking is used. The tracking mechanism moves and positions the solar array such that it is positioned for maximum power output. Other ways include identifying sources of losses and finding ways to mitigate them. 
When it comes to the development of any nation, energy is the main driving factor. There is an enormous quantity of energy that gets extracted, distributed, converted and consumed every single day in the global society. Fossil fuels account for around 85 percent of energy that is produced. Fossil fuel resources are limited and using them is known to cause global warming because of emission of greenhouse gases. There is a growing need for energy from such sources as solar, wind, ocean tidal waves and geothermal for the provision of sustainable and power. Solar panels directly convert radiation from the sun into electrical energy. The panels are mainly manufactured from semiconductor materials, notably silicon. Their efficiency is 24.5% on the higher side. Three ways of increasing the efficiency of the solar panels are through increase of cell efficiency, maximizing the power output and the use of a tracking system.

2.2 	Purpose


Maximum power point tracking (MPPT) is the process of maximizing the power output from the solar panel by keeping its operation on the knee point of P-V characteristics. MPPT technology will only offer maximum power which can be received from stationary arrays of solar panels at 2 any given time. The technology cannot however increase generation of power when the sun is not aligned with the system. 
Solar tracking is a system that is mechanized to track the position of the sun to increase power output by between 30% and 60% than systems that are stationary. It is a more cost effective solution than the purchase of solar panels. 
There are various types of trackers that can be used for increase in the amount of energy that can be obtained by solar panels. Dual axis trackers are among the most efficient, though this comes with increased complexity. Dual trackers track sunlight from box axes. They are the best option for places where the position of the sun keeps changing during the year at different seasons. Single axis trackers are a better option for places around the equator where there is no significant change in the apparent position of the sun. 
The level to which the efficiency is improved will depend on the efficiency of the tracking system and the weather. Very efficient trackers will offer more efficiency because they are able to track the sun with more precision. There will be bigger increase in efficiency in cases where the weather is sunny and thus favorable for the tracking system.
A solar tracker is used in various systems for the improvement of harnessing of solar radiation. The problem that is posed is the implementation of a system which is capable of enhancing production of power by 30-40%. The control circuit is implemented by the microcontroller. The control circuit then positions the motor that is used to orient the solar panel optimally.

2.3 	Scope of this project


The solar project was implemented using a servo motor. The choice was informed by the fact that the motor is fast, can sustain high torque, has precise rotation within limited angle and does not produce any noise. There is the embedded software section where the Arduino Mega 2560 is programmed using the C language. The Arduino IDE was used for the coding. 
There is the design of an input stage that facilitates conversion of light into a voltage by the light dependent resistors, LDRs. There is comparison of the average of two voltages, and then the microcontroller uses the difference as the error. The servo motor uses this error to rotate through a corresponding angle for the adjustment of the position of the solar panel until such a time that the voltage outputs in the LDRs are equal. The difference between the voltages of the LDRs is gotten as analog readings. The difference is transmitted to the servo motor and it thus moves to ensure the two LDRs are an equal inclination. This means they will be receiving the same amount of light. The procedure is repeated throughout the day.
